# Quick Start Guide

This GitHub Action is designed to automate the process of creating a new release on push to the main branch. It's triggered on a push event to the main branch and does not require any inputs.

## Inputs

No inputs.

## Examples

This action is automatically triggered on a push to the main branch and does not require any additional configuration.

## FAQs

**Q: How is the version number determined?**

A: The version number is determined by fetching all tags, sorting them, and retrieving the latest version. If no tags are found, it defaults to v0.0.1.

**Q: How are the release notes generated?**

A: The release notes are automatically generated by the `softprops/action-gh-release@v1` action.

**Q: How is the new release managed?**

A: The release automatically increases the patch or minor version, but also tags the *MAJOR* and *MAJOR.MINOR* versions to point to the latest commit.

If the branch name starts with "fix", it sets the increment to "patch". If the branch name starts with "feat", it sets the increment to "minor". Otherwise, it returns without making any changes.

As example:
- we currently are at version v1.1.1. Using the release pipeline for a patch will increase the patch version (-> v1.1.2), and also will renew tagging so that workflows already calling @v1 or @v1.1 would target the new release v1.1.2.

- we currently are at version v1.1.9. Using the release pipeline for a minor will increase the minor version (-> v1.2.0), and also will renew tagging so that workflows already calling @v1 or @v1.2 would target the new release v1.2.0.
